compilers.md, before:

# [C++ links](README.md): compilers

See also: [assembly (x86)](assembly.x86.md), [compilers correctness](compilers.correctness.md)

# Background & Resources

* A Tourist’s Guide to the LLVM Source Code - http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1453
* Computer Language Notes: Compilers and Interpreters - https://github.com/melling/ComputerLanguages/blob/master/compilers.org
* GCC Wiki - List of compiler books - https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/ListOfCompilerBooks
* How To Write Shared Libraries - Ulrich Drepper - https://www.akkadia.org/drepper/dsohowto.pdf
* Jordan Rose (Swift team) recommendations - http://belkadan.com/blog/2015/11/Recommendations/
* Let’s Build A Simple Interpreter - https://ruslanspivak.com/lsbasi-part1/
* Life of an instruction in LLVM - http://eli.thegreenplace.net/2012/11/24/life-of-an-instruction-in-llvm
* Life of an instruction in Clang / LLVM - https://github.com/thegameg/llvm-life/
* LLVM - Chris Lattner, The Architecture of Open Source Applications - http://www.aosabook.org/en/llvm.html
* LLVM Tutorial: Kaleidoscope - http://llvm.org/docs/tutorial/
  - Haskell version: http://www.stephendiehl.com/llvm/
* LLVM for Grad Students - http://adriansampson.net/blog/llvm.html
* Notes on Graph Algorithms Used in Optimizing Compilers - Carl Offner - http://www.cs.umb.edu/~offner/files/flow_graph.pdf
* Resources for Amateur Compiler Writers - http://c9x.me/compile/bib/
* Static Single Assignment (SSA) Book - http://ssabook.gforge.inria.fr/latest/book.pdf - https://gforge.inria.fr/scm/viewvc.php/ssabook/book/
* Testing LLVM - http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1450
* Tutorial: Creating an LLVM Backend for the Cpu0 Architecture - https://jonathan2251.github.io/lbd/
* Tutorial: Creating an LLVM Toolchain for the Cpu0 Architecture - http://jonathan2251.github.io/lbt/
* Validation & testing: http://web.cs.ucdavis.edu/~su/emi-project/

# Conferences

Compilers Call For Papers for Conferences, Workshops and Journals at WikiCFP - http://www.wikicfp.com/cfp/call?conference=compilers  
Computer Architecture and Compilers Conference Map - http://archconfmap.com/

* ASPLOS: International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/asplos/
* CASES: Compilers, Architecture, and Synthesis for Embedded Systems - http://www.esweek.org/cases - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/cases/
* CC: The International Conference on Compiler Construction - http://conf.researchr.org/series/CC - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/cc/
* CGO: International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization - http://cgo.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/cgo/
* HPCA: International Symposium on High-Performance Computer Architecture - http://www.hpcaconf.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/hpca/
* ICFP: International Conference on Functional Programming - http://icfpconference.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/icfp/
* ISMM: International Symposium on Memory Management - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/ISMM/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/iwmm/
* LCTES: Languages, Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems - http://lctes.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/lctrts/
* OOPSLA: Object-Oriented Programming Systems, Languages and Applications - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/OOPSLA/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/oopsla/
* PACT: International Conference on Parallel Architecture and Compilation - http://pactconf.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/IEEEpact/
* PLDI: Programming Language Design and Implementation - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/PLDI/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/pldi/
* POPL: Principles of Programming Languages - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/POPL/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/popl/
* PPoPP: ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles and Practice of Parallel Programming - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/PPOPP/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/ppopp/
* SAS: International Static Analysis Symposium - http://www.staticanalysis.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/sas/
* SCOPES: International Workshop on Software and Compilers for Embedded Systems - http://www.scopesconf.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/scopes/

# Courses

* Advanced Compilers - John Regehr, University of Utah
  - Weeks 1 and 2: http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1419
  - Weeks 3-5: http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1428
* Compilers -  Alex Aiken, Stanford OpenEdX
  - http://online.stanford.edu/course/compilers-0
* Compilers - Hal Perkins, CSEP 501, UW CSE
  - https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/csep501/
  - Winter 2016 Homepage: https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/csep501/16wi/
  - Winter 2016 Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTPQEx-31JXhfAWGnGzwbfhB2zUB7Jd4C
  - Winter 2016 Topics: https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/csep501/16wi/calendar/lecturelist.html
* Program Analysis and Reliability - Nick Sumner, CMPT 886, Spring 2015, SFU
  - Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLNC6lmsIySCOPjY8IwKBtD2cqe-MMgIGM
  - Schedule & Slides: http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~wsumner/teaching/886/15/schedule.html

# Decompilation

* Compositional Decompilation using LLVM IR
  - https://github.com/decomp/decomp
  - Design documents: https://github.com/decomp/doc

# Detection

* Pre-defined Compiler Macros - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/
	+ Architectures - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Architectures/
	+ Compilers - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Compilers/
	+ Endianness - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Endianness/
	+ Language Standards - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Standards/
	+ Operating Systems - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/OperatingSystems/
	+ Standard Libraries - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Libraries/

# Documentation

* Clang documentation - http://clang.llvm.org/docs/
* GCC online documentation - https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/
  - Cynbe's GCC Debugging Hints - http://muq.org/~cynbe/gcc/
    - Debugging Resources - http://muq.org/~cynbe/gcc/offsite-resources.html
    - Comments on the Internals Manual - http://muq.org/~cynbe/gcc/gccint.html
  - GCC Wiki - https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki
* LLVM documentation - http://llvm.org/docs/
* Visual C++ documentation
  - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/
  - https://github.com/Microsoft/cpp-docs
  - https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/60k1461a.aspx

# Implementations

* List of Online C++ Compilers - https://arnemertz.github.io/online-compilers/
* LLVM - http://llvm.org/
  - LLVM Developers' Meeting - http://llvm.org/devmtg/
  - http://blog.llvm.org/
  - http://llvmweekly.org/
* GCC (GNU Compiler Collection) - https://gcc.gnu.org/
  - GNU Tools Cauldron - https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki#Events
  - https://twitter.com/gnutools/
* Visual C++ - https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/cplusplus/
  - https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/vcblog/

# Linking and Loading

* Advanced C and C++ Compiling by Milan Stevanovic​ (2014)  
  "Engineering guide to C/C++ compiling, linking, and binary files structure"
  - http://www.apress.com/9781430266679
  - http://link.springer.com/book/10.1007%2F978-1-4302-6668-6
  - https://github.com/apress/adv-c-cpp-compiling
* An Evil Copy: How the Loader Betrays You - https://nebelwelt.net/publications/files/17NDSS.pdf
* Linkers - 20 part linker essay by Ian Lance Taylor - https://lwn.net/Articles/276782/
* Linkers and Loaders by John R. Levine (1999) - https://www.iecc.com/linker/
* Nick Desaulniers' posts
  - Part 1 – Object Files and Symbols - http://nickdesaulniers.github.io/blog/2016/08/13/object-files-and-symbols/
  - Part 2 – Static and Dynamic Libraries - http://nickdesaulniers.github.io/blog/2016/11/20/static-and-dynamic-libraries/
* The missing link: explaining ELF static linking, semantically - Stephen Kell, Dominic P. Mulligan, Peter Sewell - OOPSLA 2016
  - http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~pes20/rems/papers/oopsla-elf-linking-2016.pdf
  - https://bitbucket.org/Peter_Sewell/linksem/
* Understanding the classical model for linking - Raymond Chen - https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/oldnewthing/tag/linker

# Optimization

* ALIVe: Automatic LLVM InstCombine Verifier
  - http://rise4fun.com/Alive
  - https://github.com/nunoplopes/alive
  - http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1170
  - https://www.cs.utah.edu/~regehr/papers/pldi15.pdf
  - http://llvm.org/devmtg/2014-10/Slides/Menendez-Alive.pdf
* Automatic Feedback Directed Optimizer (AutoFDO)
  - https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/AutoFDO
  - https://github.com/google/autofdo
* Compiler Optimizations for Reverse Engineers by Rolf Rolles
  - http://www.msreverseengineering.com/blog/2014/6/23/compiler-optimizations-for-reverse-engineers
  - http://www.msreverseengineering.com/s/Binary-Literacy-Static-6-Optimizations.ppt
* Compiler Optimization Options
  - GCC: https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Optimize-Options.html
  - Clang: http://clang.llvm.org/docs/CommandGuide/clang.html#cmdoption-O0 - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15548023/clang-optimization-levels
  - Visual C++: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/19z1t1wy.aspx
* Devirtualization in C++ - https://hubicka.blogspot.com/search/label/devirtualization
* GoingNative 50: New Visual C++ Code Optimizer - https://channel9.msdn.com/Shows/C9-GoingNative/GoingNative-50-New-Visual-C-Code-Optimizer
* Link time optimization (LTO) - https://hubicka.blogspot.com/search/label/link-time%20optimization

## Superoptimization

* GNU Superoptimizer Version 2 - https://github.com/embecosm/gso2
* Souper - a superoptimizer for LLVM IR - https://github.com/google/souper
* Stochastic Superoptimization - http://blog.regehr.org/archives/923
* STOKE: A stochastic superoptimizer and program synthesizer - http://stoke.stanford.edu - https://github.com/StanfordPL/stoke
* Superoptimizing Compilers - http://superoptimization.org/wiki/Superoptimizing_Compilers
* Superoptimization - James Pallister - FOSDEM 2015 - https://archive.fosdem.org/2015/schedule/event/superoptimization/

# Sanitizers

* https://github.com/google/sanitizers
  - https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki
* https://maitesin.github.io/clang_sanitizers/

# Talks

## 2017

* Getting started with LLVM: the TL;DR version - Diana Picus
  - LinaroOrg Connect San Francisco 2017 - SFO17
  - https://connect.linaro.org/resource/sfo17/sfo17-110/
* LLVM Internals #2 – Renato Golin, Peter Smith, Diana Picus, Omair Javaid, Adhemerval Zanella
  - Linaro Connect Budapest 2017 - BUD17-302
  - http://connect.linaro.org/resource/bud17/bud17-302/

## 2016

* Introduction to LLVM – Projects, Components, Integration, Internals - Renato Golin
  - Linaro Connect Las Vegas 2016 - LAS16-501
  - http://connect.linaro.org/resource/las16/las16-501/
* Anders Hejlsberg on Modern Compiler Construction
  - Channel 9; May 12, 2016
  - https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/Seth-Juarez/Anders-Hejlsberg-on-Modern-Compiler-Construction
* STOKE: Search-Based Compiler Optimization - Alex Aiken
  - UCI CS Distinguished Lecture; April 29, 2016
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rZFeTTFp7x4

## 2015

* Understanding Compiler Optimization - Chandler Carruth
  - Opening Keynote Meeting C++ 2015
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FnGCDLhaxKU
* Stochastic Optimization for x86 Binaries - Eric Schkufza
  - Google Tech Talks; January 12, 2015
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aD9mZDJzb58

## 2014

* Superoptimizing LLVM - John Regehr
  - UW CSE Colloquium; December 2, 2014
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ux0YnVEaI6A
* Compiler Technologies - Jim Hogg
  - Northwest C++ Users' Group; October 15, 2014
  - http://nwcpp.org/october-2014.html

## 2013

* Compiler Confidential - Eric Brumer
  - GoingNative 2013
  - https://channel9.msdn.com/Events/GoingNative/2013/Compiler-Confidential

# Warnings

* C/C++/Objective-C compiler warning flags collection and parsers
  - https://github.com/Barro/compiler-warnings#ccobjective-c-compiler-warning-flags-collection-and-parsers
* Compiler Warnings - Ian Lance Taylor - https://www.airs.com/blog/archives/159
* leathers - Warning suppression library (C++) - https://github.com/ruslo/leathers
  - Warnings list: https://github.com/ruslo/leathers/wiki/List
* ListCppWarningOptions: A simple Perl script that prints GCC warning options you can apply to C++ code
  - https://github.com/nkakuev/list-cpp-warning-options
* Use The Tools Available - Compilers
  - https://github.com/lefticus/cppbestpractices/blob/master/02-Use_the_Tools_Available.md#compilers
* Useful GCC warning options not enabled by -Wall -Wextra
  - https://kristerw.blogspot.com/2017/09/useful-gcc-warning-options-not-enabled.html
* Warning Flags - http://www.iso-9899.info/wiki/WarningFlags
* Warning Options - https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Warning-Options.html

Commit message:

Add "Introduction to LLVM" from FOSDEM 2018

compilers.md, after:

# [C++ links](README.md): compilers

See also: [assembly (x86)](assembly.x86.md), [compilers correctness](compilers.correctness.md)

# Background & Resources

* A Tourist’s Guide to the LLVM Source Code - http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1453
* Computer Language Notes: Compilers and Interpreters - https://github.com/melling/ComputerLanguages/blob/master/compilers.org
* GCC Wiki - List of compiler books - https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/ListOfCompilerBooks
* How To Write Shared Libraries - Ulrich Drepper - https://www.akkadia.org/drepper/dsohowto.pdf
* Jordan Rose (Swift team) recommendations - http://belkadan.com/blog/2015/11/Recommendations/
* Let’s Build A Simple Interpreter - https://ruslanspivak.com/lsbasi-part1/
* Life of an instruction in LLVM - http://eli.thegreenplace.net/2012/11/24/life-of-an-instruction-in-llvm
* Life of an instruction in Clang / LLVM - https://github.com/thegameg/llvm-life/
* LLVM - Chris Lattner, The Architecture of Open Source Applications - http://www.aosabook.org/en/llvm.html
* LLVM Tutorial: Kaleidoscope - http://llvm.org/docs/tutorial/
  - Haskell version: http://www.stephendiehl.com/llvm/
* LLVM for Grad Students - http://adriansampson.net/blog/llvm.html
* Notes on Graph Algorithms Used in Optimizing Compilers - Carl Offner - http://www.cs.umb.edu/~offner/files/flow_graph.pdf
* Resources for Amateur Compiler Writers - http://c9x.me/compile/bib/
* Static Single Assignment (SSA) Book - http://ssabook.gforge.inria.fr/latest/book.pdf - https://gforge.inria.fr/scm/viewvc.php/ssabook/book/
* Testing LLVM - http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1450
* Tutorial: Creating an LLVM Backend for the Cpu0 Architecture - https://jonathan2251.github.io/lbd/
* Tutorial: Creating an LLVM Toolchain for the Cpu0 Architecture - http://jonathan2251.github.io/lbt/
* Validation & testing: http://web.cs.ucdavis.edu/~su/emi-project/

# Conferences

Compilers Call For Papers for Conferences, Workshops and Journals at WikiCFP - http://www.wikicfp.com/cfp/call?conference=compilers  
Computer Architecture and Compilers Conference Map - http://archconfmap.com/

* ASPLOS: International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/asplos/
* CASES: Compilers, Architecture, and Synthesis for Embedded Systems - http://www.esweek.org/cases - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/cases/
* CC: The International Conference on Compiler Construction - http://conf.researchr.org/series/CC - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/cc/
* CGO: International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization - http://cgo.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/cgo/
* HPCA: International Symposium on High-Performance Computer Architecture - http://www.hpcaconf.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/hpca/
* ICFP: International Conference on Functional Programming - http://icfpconference.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/icfp/
* ISMM: International Symposium on Memory Management - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/ISMM/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/iwmm/
* LCTES: Languages, Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems - http://lctes.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/lctrts/
* OOPSLA: Object-Oriented Programming Systems, Languages and Applications - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/OOPSLA/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/oopsla/
* PACT: International Conference on Parallel Architecture and Compilation - http://pactconf.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/IEEEpact/
* PLDI: Programming Language Design and Implementation - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/PLDI/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/pldi/
* POPL: Principles of Programming Languages - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/POPL/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/popl/
* PPoPP: ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles and Practice of Parallel Programming - http://www.sigplan.org/Conferences/PPOPP/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/ppopp/
* SAS: International Static Analysis Symposium - http://www.staticanalysis.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/sas/
* SCOPES: International Workshop on Software and Compilers for Embedded Systems - http://www.scopesconf.org/ - http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/scopes/

# Courses

* Advanced Compilers - John Regehr, University of Utah
  - Weeks 1 and 2: http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1419
  - Weeks 3-5: http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1428
* Compilers -  Alex Aiken, Stanford OpenEdX
  - http://online.stanford.edu/course/compilers-0
* Compilers - Hal Perkins, CSEP 501, UW CSE
  - https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/csep501/
  - Winter 2016 Homepage: https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/csep501/16wi/
  - Winter 2016 Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTPQEx-31JXhfAWGnGzwbfhB2zUB7Jd4C
  - Winter 2016 Topics: https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/csep501/16wi/calendar/lecturelist.html
* Program Analysis and Reliability - Nick Sumner, CMPT 886, Spring 2015, SFU
  - Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLNC6lmsIySCOPjY8IwKBtD2cqe-MMgIGM
  - Schedule & Slides: http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~wsumner/teaching/886/15/schedule.html

# Decompilation

* Compositional Decompilation using LLVM IR
  - https://github.com/decomp/decomp
  - Design documents: https://github.com/decomp/doc

# Detection

* Pre-defined Compiler Macros - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/
	+ Architectures - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Architectures/
	+ Compilers - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Compilers/
	+ Endianness - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Endianness/
	+ Language Standards - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Standards/
	+ Operating Systems - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/OperatingSystems/
	+ Standard Libraries - https://sourceforge.net/p/predef/wiki/Libraries/

# Documentation

* Clang documentation - http://clang.llvm.org/docs/
* GCC online documentation - https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/
  - Cynbe's GCC Debugging Hints - http://muq.org/~cynbe/gcc/
    - Debugging Resources - http://muq.org/~cynbe/gcc/offsite-resources.html
    - Comments on the Internals Manual - http://muq.org/~cynbe/gcc/gccint.html
  - GCC Wiki - https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki
* LLVM documentation - http://llvm.org/docs/
* Visual C++ documentation
  - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/
  - https://github.com/Microsoft/cpp-docs
  - https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/60k1461a.aspx

# Implementations

* List of Online C++ Compilers - https://arnemertz.github.io/online-compilers/
* LLVM - http://llvm.org/
  - LLVM Developers' Meeting - http://llvm.org/devmtg/
  - http://blog.llvm.org/
  - http://llvmweekly.org/
* GCC (GNU Compiler Collection) - https://gcc.gnu.org/
  - GNU Tools Cauldron - https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki#Events
  - https://twitter.com/gnutools/
* Visual C++ - https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/cplusplus/
  - https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/vcblog/

# Linking and Loading

* Advanced C and C++ Compiling by Milan Stevanovic​ (2014)  
  "Engineering guide to C/C++ compiling, linking, and binary files structure"
  - http://www.apress.com/9781430266679
  - http://link.springer.com/book/10.1007%2F978-1-4302-6668-6
  - https://github.com/apress/adv-c-cpp-compiling
* An Evil Copy: How the Loader Betrays You - https://nebelwelt.net/publications/files/17NDSS.pdf
* Linkers - 20 part linker essay by Ian Lance Taylor - https://lwn.net/Articles/276782/
* Linkers and Loaders by John R. Levine (1999) - https://www.iecc.com/linker/
* Nick Desaulniers' posts
  - Part 1 – Object Files and Symbols - http://nickdesaulniers.github.io/blog/2016/08/13/object-files-and-symbols/
  - Part 2 – Static and Dynamic Libraries - http://nickdesaulniers.github.io/blog/2016/11/20/static-and-dynamic-libraries/
* The missing link: explaining ELF static linking, semantically - Stephen Kell, Dominic P. Mulligan, Peter Sewell - OOPSLA 2016
  - http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~pes20/rems/papers/oopsla-elf-linking-2016.pdf
  - https://bitbucket.org/Peter_Sewell/linksem/
* Understanding the classical model for linking - Raymond Chen - https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/oldnewthing/tag/linker

# Optimization

* ALIVe: Automatic LLVM InstCombine Verifier
  - http://rise4fun.com/Alive
  - https://github.com/nunoplopes/alive
  - http://blog.regehr.org/archives/1170
  - https://www.cs.utah.edu/~regehr/papers/pldi15.pdf
  - http://llvm.org/devmtg/2014-10/Slides/Menendez-Alive.pdf
* Automatic Feedback Directed Optimizer (AutoFDO)
  - https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/AutoFDO
  - https://github.com/google/autofdo
* Compiler Optimizations for Reverse Engineers by Rolf Rolles
  - http://www.msreverseengineering.com/blog/2014/6/23/compiler-optimizations-for-reverse-engineers
  - http://www.msreverseengineering.com/s/Binary-Literacy-Static-6-Optimizations.ppt
* Compiler Optimization Options
  - GCC: https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Optimize-Options.html
  - Clang: http://clang.llvm.org/docs/CommandGuide/clang.html#cmdoption-O0 - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15548023/clang-optimization-levels
  - Visual C++: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/19z1t1wy.aspx
* Devirtualization in C++ - https://hubicka.blogspot.com/search/label/devirtualization
* GoingNative 50: New Visual C++ Code Optimizer - https://channel9.msdn.com/Shows/C9-GoingNative/GoingNative-50-New-Visual-C-Code-Optimizer
* Link time optimization (LTO) - https://hubicka.blogspot.com/search/label/link-time%20optimization

## Superoptimization

* GNU Superoptimizer Version 2 - https://github.com/embecosm/gso2
* Souper - a superoptimizer for LLVM IR - https://github.com/google/souper
* Stochastic Superoptimization - http://blog.regehr.org/archives/923
* STOKE: A stochastic superoptimizer and program synthesizer - http://stoke.stanford.edu - https://github.com/StanfordPL/stoke
* Superoptimizing Compilers - http://superoptimization.org/wiki/Superoptimizing_Compilers
* Superoptimization - James Pallister - FOSDEM 2015 - https://archive.fosdem.org/2015/schedule/event/superoptimization/

# Sanitizers

* https://github.com/google/sanitizers
  - https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki
* https://maitesin.github.io/clang_sanitizers/

# Talks

## 2018

* Introduction to LLVM: Building simple program analysis tools and instrumentation
  - FOSDEM 2018 - Mike Shah
  - https://fosdem.org/2018/schedule/event/introduction/
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VKIv_Bkp4pk
  - slides & code: http://www.mshah.io/fosdem18.html

## 2017

* Getting started with LLVM: the TL;DR version - Diana Picus
  - LinaroOrg Connect San Francisco 2017 - SFO17
  - https://connect.linaro.org/resource/sfo17/sfo17-110/
* LLVM Internals #2 – Renato Golin, Peter Smith, Diana Picus, Omair Javaid, Adhemerval Zanella
  - Linaro Connect Budapest 2017 - BUD17-302
  - http://connect.linaro.org/resource/bud17/bud17-302/

## 2016

* Introduction to LLVM – Projects, Components, Integration, Internals - Renato Golin
  - Linaro Connect Las Vegas 2016 - LAS16-501
  - http://connect.linaro.org/resource/las16/las16-501/
* Anders Hejlsberg on Modern Compiler Construction
  - Channel 9; May 12, 2016
  - https://channel9.msdn.com/Blogs/Seth-Juarez/Anders-Hejlsberg-on-Modern-Compiler-Construction
* STOKE: Search-Based Compiler Optimization - Alex Aiken
  - UCI CS Distinguished Lecture; April 29, 2016
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rZFeTTFp7x4

## 2015

* Understanding Compiler Optimization - Chandler Carruth
  - Opening Keynote Meeting C++ 2015
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FnGCDLhaxKU
* Stochastic Optimization for x86 Binaries - Eric Schkufza
  - Google Tech Talks; January 12, 2015
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aD9mZDJzb58

## 2014

* Superoptimizing LLVM - John Regehr
  - UW CSE Colloquium; December 2, 2014
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ux0YnVEaI6A
* Compiler Technologies - Jim Hogg
  - Northwest C++ Users' Group; October 15, 2014
  - http://nwcpp.org/october-2014.html

## 2013

* Compiler Confidential - Eric Brumer
  - GoingNative 2013
  - https://channel9.msdn.com/Events/GoingNative/2013/Compiler-Confidential

# Warnings

* C/C++/Objective-C compiler warning flags collection and parsers
  - https://github.com/Barro/compiler-warnings#ccobjective-c-compiler-warning-flags-collection-and-parsers
* Compiler Warnings - Ian Lance Taylor - https://www.airs.com/blog/archives/159
* leathers - Warning suppression library (C++) - https://github.com/ruslo/leathers
  - Warnings list: https://github.com/ruslo/leathers/wiki/List
* ListCppWarningOptions: A simple Perl script that prints GCC warning options you can apply to C++ code
  - https://github.com/nkakuev/list-cpp-warning-options
* Use The Tools Available - Compilers
  - https://github.com/lefticus/cppbestpractices/blob/master/02-Use_the_Tools_Available.md#compilers
* Useful GCC warning options not enabled by -Wall -Wextra
  - https://kristerw.blogspot.com/2017/09/useful-gcc-warning-options-not-enabled.html
* Warning Flags - http://www.iso-9899.info/wiki/WarningFlags
* Warning Options - https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Warning-Options.html
