learning_teaching.md, before:

# [C++ links](README.md): Learning and teaching

Note: see also [Communities](communities.md) -- where you can learn together.

- C++ Core Guidelines
	- https://github.com/isocpp/cppcoreguidelines
	- http://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines.html
- C++ Patterns: A repository of modern C++ patterns curated by the community
	- https://github.com/sftrabbit/CppPatterns-Patterns
	- https://cpppatterns.com/
- C++ Tip of The Week
	- https://github.com/QuantlabFinancial/cpp_tip_of_the_week
- C++ Tips of the Week: https://abseil.io/tips/
- Awesome Modern C++ - A collection of resources on modern C++.
	- https://awesomecpp.com/
	- https://github.com/rigtorp/awesome-modern-cpp
- Collaborative Collection of C++ Best Practices
	- https://github.com/lefticus/cppbestpractices
- Get Started! - https://isocpp.org/get-started
- Herb Sutter's Guru of the Week (GotW) series: https://herbsutter.com/gotw/
	- 1997-2008: http://www.gotw.ca/gotw/
- Learning C++ - Simon Brand - https://blog.tartanllama.xyz/learning-cpp/
- List of Engineers Willing to Mentor You - http://stephaniehurlburt.com/blog/2016/11/14/list-of-engineers-willing-to-mentor-you
- Proposal for Study Group: C++ Education - http://wg21.link/P1231
- Steve Dewhurst: C++ Once, Weakly... - http://www.stevedewhurst.com/once_weakly.html
- Teaching C - https://blog.regehr.org/archives/1393
- The C++ Programming Language - http://www.stroustrup.com/C++.html
- The Definitive C++ Book Guide and List - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/388242/the-definitive-c-book-guide-and-list
- Where to Get Started Learing C++ and What Resources to Use
	- https://shafik.github.io/c++/learning/2019/09/05/getting_started_learning_cpp.html

## FAQs

- Bjarne Stroustrup's FAQs
	- FAQ - http://www.stroustrup.com/bs_faq.html
	- C++ Style and Technique FAQ - http://www.stroustrup.com/bs_faq2.html
	- C++11 - http://www.stroustrup.com/C++11FAQ.html
- C++ FAQ - https://isocpp.org/faq
	- Learning C++ - https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/how-to-learn-cpp
- comp.lang.c Frequently Asked Questions - http://www.c-faq.com/
- LearnProgramming C++ FAQ - https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/wiki/faq_cpp

## Lectures & Talks

### Learning & Teaching

- Beginning with C++
	- 2017; Jens Weller
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9WHRfU7U9lk
- C++: A General Purpose Language and Library - Kate Gregory and James McNellis
	- a free introductory C++ course on Microsoft Virtual Academy
	- https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/cplusplus-language-library
	- https://mva.microsoft.com/liveevents/c-a-general-purpose-language-and-library
	- http://www.microsoftvirtualacademy.com/training-courses/c-a-general-purpose-language-and-library-jump-start
- Core C++ 2019 / Teaching C++ Workshop 2019 @MTA
	- http://www2.mta.ac.il/~amirk/teaching_cpp_workshop_2019/
	- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLn4wYlDYx4bumJrfSjI8q_mXV0ieqJ6g7
- Experiences in Teaching Modern C++ to Beginners
	- C++Now 2019; Ryan Dougherty
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GV1r7uJkPH4
- How to Teach C++ and Influence a Generation - Christopher Di Bella
	- CppCon 2018 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3AkPd9Nt2Aw
	- ACCU 2019 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nzEPHkUxXZs
- Learning and Teaching Modern C++
	- CppCon 2017; Bjarne Stroustrup
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fX2W3nNjJIo
- Learning and teaching modern C++
	- Meeting C++ 2016; Arne Mertz
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5wOrhL4ew8
- Learning (and teaching) modern C++ - Challenges and Resources
	- C++ on Sea 2019; Arne Mertz
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yzb57K6b5SY
- Quantifying Accidental Complexity: An Empirical Look at Teaching and Using C++
	- Avast C++ Meetup; February 11, 2020; Herb Sutter
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qx22oxlQmKc
- SG20 Education and Recommended Videos for Teaching C++
	- https://www.cjdb.com.au/sg20-and-videos
- Stop Teaching C (When Teaching C++) - Kate Gregory
	- CppCast - Oct 14, 2015 - http://cppcast.com/2015/10/kate-gregory/
	- CppCon 2015 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YnWhqhNdYyk

### Self-Study

- [CppCon: Back to Basics Track](https://cppcon.org/b2b/)
	- https://quuxplusone.github.io/blog/2019/09/12/cppcon-2019-b2b-track/
	- https://quuxplusone.github.io/blog/2020/08/11/cppcon-2020-b2b-track/
- C9 Lectures: Stephan T. Lavavej
	1. Standard Template Library (STL) - https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/C9-Lectures-Stephan-T-Lavavej-Standard-Template-Library-STL-
	2. Advanced STL - https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/C9-Lectures-Stephan-T-Lavavej-Advanced-STL
	3. Core C++ - https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/C9-Lectures-Stephan-T-Lavavej-Core-C-
- C++ Programming Videos - Bo Qian - http://boqian.weebly.com/c-programming.html
	- https://www.youtube.com/user/BoQianTheProgrammer/playlists
- C++ YouTube Channels - https://github.com/shafik/cpp_youtube_channels
- C++ Weekly - Jason Turner - https://www.youtube.com/user/lefticus1/playlists
- code_report
	- https://youtube.com/c/codereport
	- https://github.com/codereport/Talks
- Everything Cpp - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxwGBrWeIIWO9V_uLwRWCdA/playlists
- Programming in C++ (Slides and Videos) - Michael Adams - https://www.ece.uvic.ca/~frodo/cppbook/

## Quizzes

Note: Some of the following are primarily for entertainment purposes; while providing useful guidance for self-study (and possibly self-amusement), using these for evaluation in a formal setting would likely be a terrible idea :-)

- CppQuiz - http://cppquiz.org/
- http://www.mycppquiz.com/
- C++ Pub Quiz ACCU 2012 - http://www.pvv.org/~oma/PubQuiz_ACCU_Apr2012.pdf
- C++ Pub Quiz ACCU 2013 - http://www.pvv.org/~oma/PubQuiz_ACCU_Apr2013.pdf
- C++ Pub Quiz ACCU 2014 - http://www.pvv.org/~oma/PubQuiz_ACCU_Apr2014.pdf
- C++ Pub Quiz ACCU 2016 - http://www.pvv.org/~oma/PubQuiz_ACCU_Apr2016.pdf
- Deep C (and C++) - https://www.slideshare.net/olvemaudal/deep-c
- Google's C++ Class - https://developers.google.com/edu/c++/quiz
- Insecure coding in C (and C++) - https://www.slideshare.net/olvemaudal/insecure-coding-in-c-and-c
- Online C++ tests - http://www.interqiew.com/tests?type=cpp - http://www.interqiew.com/tests?type=dp

## References

Articles and papers (focused on teaching, but also of interest for learning by self-studying)

- A Conversation about Teaching Software Engineering - John Regehr
	- https://blog.regehr.org/archives/1569
- How to Teach “Modern C++” to Someone who Already Knows Programming?
	- Australasian Computing Education Conference (ACE) 2018
	- Adalbert Gerald Soosai Raj, Varun Naik, Jignesh M. Patel, Richard Halverson
	- http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~gerald/papers/TeachModernC++.pdf
- Koenig, A. & Moo, B. (2005) *Learning & Teaching C++ Programming*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/learning-teaching-c-programming/184401918>, C/C++ Users Journal February, 2005.
- Koenig, A. (2012) on "C++ Primer 5th Edition":
	- *Part 1: How To Revise a Textbook*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-1-how-to-revis/240003977>, Dr. Dobb's, July 19, 2012.
	- *Part 2: How Language Revisions Change Strategy*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-2-how-language/240004388>, Dr. Dobb's, July 25, 2012.
	- *Part 3: Smart Pointers Make It Harder To Teach How To Write Copy Constructors*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-3-smart-pointe/240004805>, Dr. Dobb's, August 2, 2012.
	- *Part 4: What Makes a Good Example?*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-4-what-makes-a/240005166>, Dr. Dobb's, August 8, 2012.
	- *Part 5: Core Language Versus Library?*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-5-core-languag/240005657>, Dr. Dobb's, August 15, 2012
- Stroustrup, Bjarne (1999) *Learning Standard C++ as a New Language*; <http://www.stroustrup.com/new_learning.pdf>, C/C++ Users Journal, pp 43-54, May 1999.
- Stroustrup, Bjarne (2009) *Programming in an undergraduate CS curriculum*, <http://www.stroustrup.com/software.pdf>, WCCCE'09. May 2009.
- Stroustrup, Bjarne (2010) *What Should We Teach New Software Developers? Why?*,
	<http://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2010/1/55760-what-should-we-teach-new-software-developers-why/fulltext>, CACM, January 2010.
- Stroustrup, Bjarne (2011) *Principles and Practice Using C++*
	- *Chapter 0: Notes to the Reader*,	<http://www.stroustrup.com/Programming/programming_ch0.pdf>
	- *Instructor’s Guide for Programming Principles and Practice using C++*, <http://www.stroustrup.com/Programming/PPP-guide.pdf>

Commit message:

[learning_teaching][talks] Add "Why You Should Write Code That You Should Never Write" - CppCon 2021; Daisy Hollman

learning_teaching.md, after:

# [C++ links](README.md): Learning and teaching

Note: see also [Communities](communities.md) -- where you can learn together.

- C++ Core Guidelines
	- https://github.com/isocpp/cppcoreguidelines
	- http://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines.html
- C++ Patterns: A repository of modern C++ patterns curated by the community
	- https://github.com/sftrabbit/CppPatterns-Patterns
	- https://cpppatterns.com/
- C++ Tip of The Week
	- https://github.com/QuantlabFinancial/cpp_tip_of_the_week
- C++ Tips of the Week: https://abseil.io/tips/
- Awesome Modern C++ - A collection of resources on modern C++.
	- https://awesomecpp.com/
	- https://github.com/rigtorp/awesome-modern-cpp
- Collaborative Collection of C++ Best Practices
	- https://github.com/lefticus/cppbestpractices
- Get Started! - https://isocpp.org/get-started
- Herb Sutter's Guru of the Week (GotW) series: https://herbsutter.com/gotw/
	- 1997-2008: http://www.gotw.ca/gotw/
- Learning C++ - Simon Brand - https://blog.tartanllama.xyz/learning-cpp/
- List of Engineers Willing to Mentor You - http://stephaniehurlburt.com/blog/2016/11/14/list-of-engineers-willing-to-mentor-you
- Proposal for Study Group: C++ Education - http://wg21.link/P1231
- Steve Dewhurst: C++ Once, Weakly... - http://www.stevedewhurst.com/once_weakly.html
- Teaching C - https://blog.regehr.org/archives/1393
- The C++ Programming Language - http://www.stroustrup.com/C++.html
- The Definitive C++ Book Guide and List - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/388242/the-definitive-c-book-guide-and-list
- Where to Get Started Learing C++ and What Resources to Use
	- https://shafik.github.io/c++/learning/2019/09/05/getting_started_learning_cpp.html

## FAQs

- Bjarne Stroustrup's FAQs
	- FAQ - http://www.stroustrup.com/bs_faq.html
	- C++ Style and Technique FAQ - http://www.stroustrup.com/bs_faq2.html
	- C++11 - http://www.stroustrup.com/C++11FAQ.html
- C++ FAQ - https://isocpp.org/faq
	- Learning C++ - https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/how-to-learn-cpp
- comp.lang.c Frequently Asked Questions - http://www.c-faq.com/
- LearnProgramming C++ FAQ - https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/wiki/faq_cpp

## Lectures & Talks

### Learning & Teaching

- Beginning with C++
	- 2017; Jens Weller
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9WHRfU7U9lk
- C++: A General Purpose Language and Library - Kate Gregory and James McNellis
	- a free introductory C++ course on Microsoft Virtual Academy
	- https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/cplusplus-language-library
	- https://mva.microsoft.com/liveevents/c-a-general-purpose-language-and-library
	- http://www.microsoftvirtualacademy.com/training-courses/c-a-general-purpose-language-and-library-jump-start
- Core C++ 2019 / Teaching C++ Workshop 2019 @MTA
	- http://www2.mta.ac.il/~amirk/teaching_cpp_workshop_2019/
	- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLn4wYlDYx4bumJrfSjI8q_mXV0ieqJ6g7
- Experiences in Teaching Modern C++ to Beginners
	- C++Now 2019; Ryan Dougherty
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GV1r7uJkPH4
- How to Teach C++ and Influence a Generation - Christopher Di Bella
	- CppCon 2018 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3AkPd9Nt2Aw
	- ACCU 2019 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nzEPHkUxXZs
- Learning and Teaching Modern C++
	- CppCon 2017; Bjarne Stroustrup
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fX2W3nNjJIo
- Learning and teaching modern C++
	- Meeting C++ 2016; Arne Mertz
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5wOrhL4ew8
- Learning (and teaching) modern C++ - Challenges and Resources
	- C++ on Sea 2019; Arne Mertz
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yzb57K6b5SY
- Quantifying Accidental Complexity: An Empirical Look at Teaching and Using C++
	- Avast C++ Meetup; February 11, 2020; Herb Sutter
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qx22oxlQmKc
- SG20 Education and Recommended Videos for Teaching C++
	- https://www.cjdb.com.au/sg20-and-videos
- Stop Teaching C (When Teaching C++) - Kate Gregory
	- CppCast - Oct 14, 2015 - http://cppcast.com/2015/10/kate-gregory/
	- CppCon 2015 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YnWhqhNdYyk
- Why You Should Write Code That You Should Never Write
	- CppCon 2021; Daisy Hollman
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwnlGgZW9wo
	- https://dhollman.github.io/presentations/cppcon-2021/what-you-can-learn-from-being-too-cute.html

### Self-Study

- [CppCon: Back to Basics Track](https://cppcon.org/b2b/)
	- https://quuxplusone.github.io/blog/2019/09/12/cppcon-2019-b2b-track/
	- https://quuxplusone.github.io/blog/2020/08/11/cppcon-2020-b2b-track/
- C9 Lectures: Stephan T. Lavavej
	1. Standard Template Library (STL) - https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/C9-Lectures-Stephan-T-Lavavej-Standard-Template-Library-STL-
	2. Advanced STL - https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/C9-Lectures-Stephan-T-Lavavej-Advanced-STL
	3. Core C++ - https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/C9-Lectures-Stephan-T-Lavavej-Core-C-
- C++ Programming Videos - Bo Qian - http://boqian.weebly.com/c-programming.html
	- https://www.youtube.com/user/BoQianTheProgrammer/playlists
- C++ YouTube Channels - https://github.com/shafik/cpp_youtube_channels
- C++ Weekly - Jason Turner - https://www.youtube.com/user/lefticus1/playlists
- code_report
	- https://youtube.com/c/codereport
	- https://github.com/codereport/Talks
- Everything Cpp - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCxwGBrWeIIWO9V_uLwRWCdA/playlists
- Programming in C++ (Slides and Videos) - Michael Adams - https://www.ece.uvic.ca/~frodo/cppbook/

## Quizzes

Note: Some of the following are primarily for entertainment purposes; while providing useful guidance for self-study (and possibly self-amusement), using these for evaluation in a formal setting would likely be a terrible idea :-)

- CppQuiz - http://cppquiz.org/
- http://www.mycppquiz.com/
- C++ Pub Quiz ACCU 2012 - http://www.pvv.org/~oma/PubQuiz_ACCU_Apr2012.pdf
- C++ Pub Quiz ACCU 2013 - http://www.pvv.org/~oma/PubQuiz_ACCU_Apr2013.pdf
- C++ Pub Quiz ACCU 2014 - http://www.pvv.org/~oma/PubQuiz_ACCU_Apr2014.pdf
- C++ Pub Quiz ACCU 2016 - http://www.pvv.org/~oma/PubQuiz_ACCU_Apr2016.pdf
- Deep C (and C++) - https://www.slideshare.net/olvemaudal/deep-c
- Google's C++ Class - https://developers.google.com/edu/c++/quiz
- Insecure coding in C (and C++) - https://www.slideshare.net/olvemaudal/insecure-coding-in-c-and-c
- Online C++ tests - http://www.interqiew.com/tests?type=cpp - http://www.interqiew.com/tests?type=dp

## References

Articles and papers (focused on teaching, but also of interest for learning by self-studying)

- A Conversation about Teaching Software Engineering - John Regehr
	- https://blog.regehr.org/archives/1569
- How to Teach “Modern C++” to Someone who Already Knows Programming?
	- Australasian Computing Education Conference (ACE) 2018
	- Adalbert Gerald Soosai Raj, Varun Naik, Jignesh M. Patel, Richard Halverson
	- http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~gerald/papers/TeachModernC++.pdf
- Koenig, A. & Moo, B. (2005) *Learning & Teaching C++ Programming*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/learning-teaching-c-programming/184401918>, C/C++ Users Journal February, 2005.
- Koenig, A. (2012) on "C++ Primer 5th Edition":
	- *Part 1: How To Revise a Textbook*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-1-how-to-revis/240003977>, Dr. Dobb's, July 19, 2012.
	- *Part 2: How Language Revisions Change Strategy*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-2-how-language/240004388>, Dr. Dobb's, July 25, 2012.
	- *Part 3: Smart Pointers Make It Harder To Teach How To Write Copy Constructors*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-3-smart-pointe/240004805>, Dr. Dobb's, August 2, 2012.
	- *Part 4: What Makes a Good Example?*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-4-what-makes-a/240005166>, Dr. Dobb's, August 8, 2012.
	- *Part 5: Core Language Versus Library?*, <http://www.drdobbs.com/cpp/c-primer-5th-edition-part-5-core-languag/240005657>, Dr. Dobb's, August 15, 2012
- Stroustrup, Bjarne (1999) *Learning Standard C++ as a New Language*; <http://www.stroustrup.com/new_learning.pdf>, C/C++ Users Journal, pp 43-54, May 1999.
- Stroustrup, Bjarne (2009) *Programming in an undergraduate CS curriculum*, <http://www.stroustrup.com/software.pdf>, WCCCE'09. May 2009.
- Stroustrup, Bjarne (2010) *What Should We Teach New Software Developers? Why?*,
	<http://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2010/1/55760-what-should-we-teach-new-software-developers-why/fulltext>, CACM, January 2010.
- Stroustrup, Bjarne (2011) *Principles and Practice Using C++*
	- *Chapter 0: Notes to the Reader*,	<http://www.stroustrup.com/Programming/programming_ch0.pdf>
	- *Instructor’s Guide for Programming Principles and Practice using C++*, <http://www.stroustrup.com/Programming/PPP-guide.pdf>
