README.md, before:

# C++ links

A categorized list of C++ resources.

Being a part of a few C++ communities, I happen to run across some interesting links -- this is an attempt to categorize them. Thanks to Saurabh Malpani from "C++ Enthusiasts" for the suggestion.

An ongoing, work-in-progress effort -- comments, feedback, and suggestions welcome!

Hopefully some will find this of some use and interest, too :-)

## Categories

- Assembly
  - [ARM](assembly.arm.md) - ARM and AArch64
  - [RISC-V](assembly.riscv.md)
  - [x86](assembly.x86.md)
- [Atomics, lock free, memory model](atomics.lockfree.memory_model.md)
- [Communities](communities.md)
- [Compilers](compilers.md)
  - [correctness](compilers.correctness.md)
- [Computer architecture](comparch.md)
  - [FPGA](comparch.fpga.md)
  - [GPU](comparch.gpu.md)
  - microarchitecture
    - [channels](comparch.micro.channels.md)
- [Debugging](debugging.md) - [readings](debugging.md#readings) (articles, documentation - implementation & use), [software](debugging.md#software) ([GDB](debugging.md#gdb), [LLDB](debugging.md#lldb), [RR](debugging.md#rr), [WinDbg](debugging.md#windbg); [stack trace & unwinding](debugging.md#stack-trace--unwinding)), [talks](debugging.md#talks-2)
- [Debugging - tracing](https://github.com/MattPD/cpplinks/blob/master/debugging.tracing.md): [Readings](https://github.com/MattPD/cpplinks/blob/master/debugging.tracing.md#readings); [Software](https://github.com/MattPD/cpplinks/blob/master/debugging.tracing.md#software); [Talks](https://github.com/MattPD/cpplinks/blob/master/debugging.tracing.md#talks)
- [Error handling](error_handling.md)
- [Executables](executables.md) - executable & object file formats ([ELF](executables.md#elf), [Mach-O](executables.md#mach-o), [PE](executables.md#pe)); debugging data formats ([DWARF](executables.md#dwarf), [PDB](executables.md#pdb-program-database))
- Interoperability
  - [FFI](interoperability.ffi.md) - foreign function interfaces (FFIs)
  - [portability](interoperability.portability.md) - [general (libraries)](interoperability.portability.md#general), [ABI](interoperability.portability.md#abi), [name mangling](interoperability.portability.md#name-mangling) 
- [Learning and teaching](learning_teaching.md)
- [Performance tools](performance.tools.md)
- [Standardization](std.md)

Commit message:

[building] Add building resources: building, build systems, and build performance optimization

README.md, after:

# C++ links

A categorized list of C++ resources.

## Categories

- Assembly
  - [ARM](assembly.arm.md) - ARM and AArch64
  - [RISC-V](assembly.riscv.md)
  - [x86](assembly.x86.md)
- [Atomics, lock free, memory model](atomics.lockfree.memory_model.md)
- [Building](building.md) - building, build systems, and build performance optimization
- [Communities](communities.md)
- [Compilers](compilers.md)
  - [correctness](compilers.correctness.md)
- [Computer architecture](comparch.md)
  - [FPGA](comparch.fpga.md)
  - [GPU](comparch.gpu.md)
  - microarchitecture
    - [channels](comparch.micro.channels.md) - microarchitectural channels
- [Debugging](debugging.md) - [readings](debugging.md#readings) (articles, documentation - implementation & use), [software](debugging.md#software) ([GDB](debugging.md#gdb), [LLDB](debugging.md#lldb), [RR](debugging.md#rr), [WinDbg](debugging.md#windbg); [stack trace & unwinding](debugging.md#stack-trace--unwinding)), [talks](debugging.md#talks-2)
- [Debugging - tracing](https://github.com/MattPD/cpplinks/blob/master/debugging.tracing.md): [readings](https://github.com/MattPD/cpplinks/blob/master/debugging.tracing.md#readings); [software](https://github.com/MattPD/cpplinks/blob/master/debugging.tracing.md#software); [talks](https://github.com/MattPD/cpplinks/blob/master/debugging.tracing.md#talks)
- [Error handling](error_handling.md)
- [Executables](executables.md) - executable & object file formats ([ELF](executables.md#elf), [Mach-O](executables.md#mach-o), [PE](executables.md#pe)); debugging data formats ([DWARF](executables.md#dwarf), [PDB](executables.md#pdb-program-database))
- Interoperability
  - [FFI](interoperability.ffi.md) - foreign function interfaces (FFIs)
  - [portability](interoperability.portability.md) - [general (libraries)](interoperability.portability.md#general), [ABI](interoperability.portability.md#abi), [name mangling](interoperability.portability.md#name-mangling) 
- [Learning and teaching](learning_teaching.md)
- [Performance tools](performance.tools.md)
- [Standardization](std.md)

## About

Being a part of a few C++ communities, I happen to run across some interesting links -- this is an attempt to categorize them. Thanks to Saurabh Malpani from "C++ Enthusiasts" for the suggestion.

An ongoing, work-in-progress effort -- comments, feedback, and suggestions welcome!

Hopefully some will find this of some use and interest, too :-)
